Recursion occurs when a function calls itself.

In both recursion and iteration, the goal is to execute a statement again and again until a specific condition is fulfilled. 
An iterative loop ends when it has reached the end of its sequence; e.g., if we are moving through a list, then  loop will stop executing when it reached the end of the list.
But in the case of recursion, the function stops terminating when a base condition is satisfied.

Recursion:
There are two essential and significant parts of a recursive function. 
(1) base case: In the base case, a conditional statement is written, which the program executes at the end, just before returning values to the users.
(2) recursive case: In the recursive case, the formula or logic the function is based upon is written. 
                    A recursive function terminates to get closer to its base case or base condition. 

As in case of loops, if the condition does not satisfy the loop could run endlessly, the same is in recursion that if the base case is not met in the call,
the function will repeatedly run, causing the system to crash.

In case of recursion, each recursive call is stored into a stack until it reaches the base condition, 
then the stack will one by one return the calls printing a series or sequence of numbers onto the screen. 
It is worth noting that stack is a LIFO data structure i.e., last in first out.
This means that the call that is sent into the stack at the end will be executed first, and the first one that was inserted into the stack will be executed at last.


Recursion vs. Iteration:
Recursion can only be applied to a function, while iteration can be used for any number of lines of code, we want to repeat
Lesser coding has to be done in case of recursion than iteration
Back tracing or reverse engineering in case of recursion can be difficult.
In the case of recursion, if the condition is not met, the system will repeat a few times and then crash while in case of iteration it will continue to run endlessly.
Even though less coding has to be written in case of recursion, it is still slower in execution because the function has to be called again, and again, storing data into the stack also increases the time of execution.
